\input amigatexinfo
\input texinfo-e   @c -*-texinfo-*-

@c *
@c * identify.library
@c *
@c * Copyright (C) 2010 Richard "Shred" Körber
@c *   http://identify.shredzone.org
@c *
@c * This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
@c * it under the terms of the GNU General Public License / GNU Lesser
@c * General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation,
@c * either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
@c *
@c * This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
@c * but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
@c * MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
@c *

@c > +- header
@c %**start of header
@setfilename Identify-E.guide
@settitle identify.library
@c %**end of header
@iftex
@setchapternewpage on
@end iftex
@c <

@set version 13.1

@c > +- titlepage
@titlepage
@title identify.library
@subtitle A library that converts cryptical IDs to a human-readable form
@subtitle Version @value{version}, @today{}
@author Richard Körber

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
Copyright @copyright{} 1996-2010 by Richard Körber

Please read the Copyright chapter!
@end titlepage
@c <
@c > +- top
@node Top, Introduction, (dir), (dir)
@c node-name, next, previous, up ***

@menu
TABLE OF CONTENTS
*****************


                          ___________
                      | _| _  _ |.|_ \\/
                      |(_|(/_| )|||  /    v@value{version}


                      == THE ORIGINAL ==

________________________________________________________________________

* 1. Introduction:Introduction.   About identify.library
* 2. Copyright:Copyright.         Please read!
* 3. Address:Address.             My Address / Updates

* 4. ListExp:ListExp.             The ListExp tool
* 5. Guru:Guru.                   The Guru tool
* 6. Function:Function.           The Function tool

* 7. System:System.               About the system descriptions

APPENDIX
* A. Fake Entries:Fakes.          Faked Boards
* B. Bugs:Bugs.                   Known Bugs
* C. FAQ:FAQ.                     Frequently asked questions
* D. History:History.             What has happened so far?
* E. Users:Users.                 These programs use identify
* F. Credits:Credits.             Greetings and credits

REGISTER
*    Concept Index:Concept Index.
________________________________________________________________________

         (C) 1996-2010 Richard Körber -- All Rights Reserved

@end menu

@c <
@c >    +- Introduction
@node Introduction, Copyright, Top, Top
@chapter Introduction
@cindex Introduction

The @code{identify.library} has a rather long history.

It all began when I got mad about all the System info programs only
showing the expansion boards as a number. So I wrote @code{expname.library},
which you may already be familiar with.

Later, expname could also identify the system's parameters (even if
it was wrong sometimes @code{;)} ). I still have new ideas for this
library. The only trouble is that the name does not fit any more.

Well, now you have the second generation of the @code{expname.library},
called @code{identify.library}. It has been completely rewritten and
expanded. The conceptional flaws of the @code{expname.library} have
been removed, and a lot of new features have been added.

The library has currently these features:

@itemize @bullet
@item Converting manufacturer and product id into manufacturer name,
      product name, and product class.
@item Converting the cryptical Amiga Guru codes into readable
      descriptions.
@item Analyzing the system's configuration (system type, processor,
      memory, graphics and so on...).
@item Converting shared library offsets into function names.
@end itemize

Even if the library appears to be quite ready --- it is still far
from complete!

I need your help! Please send manufacturer and product names and
IDs, your system's configuration, suggestions, bug reports and so on;
simply all you want to see implemented in the library.

@c <
@c >    +- Copyright
@node Copyright, Address, Introduction, Top
@chapter Copyright
@cindex Copyright

Please read the following parts carefully.

If you do not agree to these Copyright notes, you must delete this
archive and all related files.

@table @strong
@item COPYRIGHT
@cindex Copyright note

@emph{NOTE:} You accept the following terms by starting the software,
even for a test drive only.

Identify is @copyright{} Copyright 1996-2010 by Richard Körber. All rights reserved.

You only have the right to use the software, but no rights on
the software itself. Disassembling, resourcing and all other ways
of reverse engineering is forbidden. This means the expansion database
in particular!

@item FREEWARE
@cindex FreeWare

Identify is FreeWare. You are allowed to use the packet without
paying a fee or similar to the author.

@item COPYING

You can copy the packet as long as it remains entire and unchanged.

You are allowed to compress the packet using a customary compression
software (as lha, lzh, lzx, dms). You must not compress single files of
the packet (e.g. PowerPacker or Imploder).

@item PARTIAL COPYING

You are allowed to add the files @code{identify.library}, @code{rexxidentify.library}
and @code{InstallIfy} to your own program packet, without the need
to add the whole Identify packet. In this case, you
@emph{must} mention in the documentation that you are using Identify
by Richard Körber, and where a full Identify distribution is available.

@item DISTRIBUTION

You must not exceed an usual price on the market for your working
and material. This means a maximum of 5 DM (or the equivalent amount
in other currencies) for disks and 35 DM for CD-ROMs containing a PD
software collection.

I explicitly permit the distribution via AmiNet, Meeting Pearls,
Fred Fish and other well-known PD series.

@item LIABILITY

You are using the program as it is, with all flaws, and on your
own risk! I grant no warranty for the software meeting a special
purpose. This software may cause financial damage or harm people.

@item LIMITATIONS

You are not allowed to use this software and its results

@itemize @bullet
@item for fascism or military purposes
@item if you do not agree to the copyright note
@end itemize

In this case you must delete the software and all related and
generated files immediately!

@item TRADEMARKS

All Copyrights and Trademarks are held by their owners.

@end table
@c <
@c >    +- Address
@node Address, ListExp, Copyright, Top
@chapter My Address
@cindex Address

Please send all bug-reports, board descriptions, missing
graphic OS, keyfiles, flames and so on to one of the following
e-mail addresses:

@table @strong
@item INTERNET
@cindex E-Mail
@cindex Homepage

I'm reachable through Internet via this E-Mail address:

@example
shred@@shredzone.de
@end example


Check my home page for the latest release and other programs. The URL
is:

@example
http://www.shredzone.de
@end example

@end table


@c <
@c >    +- ListExp
@node ListExp, Guru, Address, Top
@chapter ListExp
@cindex ListExp
@cindex Unknown Boards

@code{ListExp} is a small tool that was already included in the
@code{expname.library} package.

It describes the hardware components of the system. On the first line it
will write some hardware parameters (like CPU, Memory). After that,
all expansion boards will be listed (hopefully by name).

By using the option @code{FULL}, all currently used commodities are listed
too. The output is then useable for bug reports and similar.

A further option allows to get the manufacturer name, product name and
class from manufacturer ID and product ID. Use the options @code{MANUFID}
and @code{PRODID} to do so.

Finally, the option @code{UPDATE} forces identify to re-check all hardware
information. Use this option e.g. after you started VMM.

Example:
@example
@cartouche
> ListExp MANUFID=514 PRODID=9
-- ListExp V9.1 -- by Richard Koerber

 Manufacturer: Commodore West Chester
 Product:      A2060
 Class:        ArcNet

@end cartouche
@end example

If some entries in the expansion list begin with a @samp{#} instead of
a name, you should send a copy of the @code{ListExp} output and the
description of the missing board (manufacturer name, product name,
product class) to me. @code{:-)}

Please write me if an expansion name has been guessed. You can
easily recognize this by the class @code{(guessed)}.

It is also not possible to check out all combinations of Amiga expansions.
If your hardware is not properly recognized, please write me.

@emph{Please note:} Some manufacturers, especially GVP and Phase 5,
assigned the same ID to different boards. @code{identify.library}
is prepared and tries to differ these boards, anyhow it can't in any
case decide right.

@ifinfo
Example: @w{@@@{" ListExp FULL " System " ListExp FULL >CON:10/10///ListExp/AUTO/CLOSE/WAIT"@}}
@end ifinfo


@c <
@c >    +- Guru
@node Guru, Function, ListExp, Top
@chapter Guru
@cindex Guru
@cindex Alert descriptions


@code{Guru} translates the cryptical alert code into a human-readable
form.

You may provide your alert code (all eight digits without any symbols before
or behind) as parameter. An example:

@example
@cartouche
> guru 81000005
-- Guru V1.3 -- by Richard Koerber

 Alert Code: 81000005
 Type:       Deadend
 Subsystem:  exec.library
 General:    General fault
 Specified:  Corrupt memory list detected in FreeMem

@end cartouche
@end example

Or you can pass LASTALERT. In this case, the last alert code will be examined.

Please read the results like this::

@table @code
@item Alert Code
This is the alert code that has been decoded.
@item Type
What kind of alert is it? It may be a deadend alert, or a recovery
alert.
@item Subsystem
Which system caused the alert?
@item General
To what general class does this alert belong? In this case, it is a
general fault which must be specified later.
@item Specified
What was the cause? This example shows that the memory list has been
corrupted by a badly written program.
@end table

@ifinfo
Example: @w{@@@{" Guru 81000005 " System " Guru 81000005 >CON:10/10///Guru/AUTO/CLOSE/WAIT"@}}
@end ifinfo


@c <
@c >    +- Function
@node Function, System, Guru, Top
@chapter Function
@cindex Function
@cindex Decoding Library Offsets

You can use the tool @code{Function} to decode the name of a function
by providing the library name and the function offset.

The first argument is the library name, e.g. @samp{exec.library}. You may
also specify device or resource names here. All letters after the point
(including the point itself) are optional, but it is case sensitive.

The last argument is the function offset to be decoded. It must be a
multiple of 6, but it doesn't need to be signed.

Example:
@example
@cartouche
> Function exec.library -456
-- Function V1.1 -- by Richard Koerber

 Library:    exec.library
 Offset:     -456
 Function:   DoIO

@end cartouche
@end example

This function requires the .fd files and an assign @samp{FD:} to the
drawer containing these files. The files must have the usual file name
format, e.g. @samp{exec_lib.fd}.

@ifinfo
Example: @w{@@@{" Function exec.library -456 " System " Function exec.library -456 >CON:10/10///Function/AUTO/CLOSE/WAIT"@}}
@end ifinfo

@c <
@c >    +- System
@node System, Fakes, Function, Top
@chapter System
@cindex System description
@cindex descriptions

@code{identify.library} analyzes your system and provides the result to
the programs. If you read the different results, please keep this in
mind:

@table @code
@item SYSTEM
Describes your Amiga model, e.g. @samp{Amiga 4000}. Unfortunately, it
is not possible to differ between Amiga 500 and Amiga 2000. In this
case, @samp{Amiga (OCS)} or @samp{Amiga (ECS)} will be reported.
@item CPU
The used CPU is returned.
@item CPUREV
The revision number of the CPU, if available. Currently, only the revision
of the 68060 processor is available.
@item CPUCLOCK
The CPU clock.
@item FPU
The used FPU, if present.
@item FPUCLOCK
The FPU clock.
@item MMU
The used MMU, if present. Currently, a 68030 is always recognized with
MMU. In this case, the result is not to be considered as a proove for a
working MMU being present.
@item VBR
Address of the processor vector base.
@item CHIPSET
The available chipset, e.g. @samp{AGA}.
@item GARY
Version of the Gary chip.
@item RAMSEY
Version of the Ramsey chip.
@item BATTCLOCK
Is a battery backed up clock available?
@item CHUNKYPLANAR
Is a system conformous Chunky Planar hardware available. It is not sufficient
if the blitter of your graphic board has a chunky planar feature.
@item AGNUS
What Agnus chip revision is mounted in your system?
@item AGNUSMODE
What Agnus mode is selected (PAL or NTSC)?
@item DENISE
What Denise chip is mounted in your system?
@item DENISEREV
What Denise revision is it? (Usually, this is not known, or 0).
@item POWERPC
Which PowerPC is available?
@item PPCCLOCK
The PowerPC clock. Due to a bug of the @code{ppc.library}, the result
can be different to the real clock. When using WarpUP, the PowerPC clock
cannot be evaluated under special circumstances.
@item PPCOS
Shows the OS that is currently used for the PowerPC. In this version,
PowerUp (Phase 5) and WarpOS (Haage&Partner) is recognized.
@item OSVER
The version of the AmigaOS ROM. If you mapped a ROM from a kickstart file,
this version will be used.
@item OSNR
The (usual) version of the AmigaOS, e.g. @samp{3.0}.
@item BOINGBAG
The number of an installed BoingBag update, if available.
@item EXECVER
The version of exec.
@item WBVER
The version of Workbench, if available.
@item SETPATCHVER
Version of the SetPatch command, if available.
@item GFXSYS
The used Graphic system, e.g. @samp{CyberGraphX}. If you use multiple
Graphic systems, you will only see one of them. It is also important
that you have already started the system and not just installed it.
@item AUDIOSYS
The used Audio system, e.g. @samp{AHI}.
@item TCPIP
If a TCP/IP stack (e.g. @samp{Miami}) has been started, its name will be returned.
@item CHIPRAM
@itemx FASTRAM
@itemx RAM
Size of the RAM (virtual RAM included). The tilde (@samp{~}) means
that a small amount of the RAM is not available to the system. This
applies to the Chip RAM as well as to the total.
@item VMMCHIPRAM
@itemx VMMFASTRAM
@itemx VMMRAM
Size of the virtual RAM.
@item PLNCHIPRAM
@itemx PLNFASTRAM
@itemx PLNRAM
Size of the physical RAM. The `Slow RAM' of the Amiga 500 and Amiga 2000
is included here as Fast RAM.
@item SLOWRAM
Size of the special Fast RAM on Amiga 500 and Amiga 2000.
@item ROMSIZE
The size of AmigaOS ROM. If you mapped a ROM file, the size of the file
will be returned.
@item VBLANKFREQ
Frequency of VBlank interrupt.
@item POWERFREQ
Power frequency. This can be different to the real frequency on UAE.
@item ECLOCK
Frequency of a special system clock.
@item LASTALERT
The recent system alert.
@item RAMACCESS
Access time of the @emph{motherboard} RAM, if available. The access time of
memory expansion boards or accelerator boards are ignored.
@item RAMWIDTH
Bus width of the motherboard RAM. Accelerator boards are ignored.
@item RAMCAS
Returns the CAS mode of Chip RAM, if available.
@item RAMBANDWIDTH
Returns the bandwidth of Chip RAM, if available.
@item EMULATED
Returns whether the Amiga is emulated or not.
@item XLVERSION
If it is an AmigaXL emulation, the version number of AmigaXL is returned.
@item HOSTOS
The host OS of the emulating system.
Currently only provided by AmigaXL.
@item HOSTVER
The host OS version of the emulating system.
Currently only provided by AmigaXL.
@item HOSTMACHINE
The host architecture (i.e. 386, PowerPC, ...) of the emulating system.
Currently only provided by AmigaXL.
@item HOSTCPU
The host CPU of the emulating system.
Currently only provided by AmigaXL.
@item HOSTSPEED
The host CPU clock rate of the emulating system.
Currently only provided by AmigaXL.
@end table


@c <----------------------------------------------------------------------
@c >    +- Fake boards
@node Fakes, Bugs, System, Top
@appendix Fake Boards
@cindex Fakes

Since the early beginning, a plagiarism of Identify does exist.
The author confirmed me that he never took database entries from
Identify. To verify this, I added some faked expansions to the
database.

Every board database containing these entries, is a plagiarism of
Identify (with Manufacturer ID and Product ID):

@itemize @bullet
@item @b{BSC Oktagon 508} (MID 2092, PID 4) : this board does not exist
@item @b{Quadlite Computers Ltd.} (MID 2096) : this manufacturer does not exist
@item @b{DelaComp} (MID 2163) : this manufacturer does not exist
@item @b{VillageTronic PicassoIV Z2} (MID 2167, PID 20) : this PID is not allocated
@item @b{UAS Interface Ltd.} (MID 5132) : this manufacturer does not exist
@item @b{MacroSystem Germany ToccataPro} (MID 18260, PID 13) : this board does not exist
@end itemize

I ask you to be lenient for this step, but it was just too tempting
to find out who copies data from Identify without prior permission... @code{;-)}
BTW, when I found out, I also had no mercy to copy data from their
databases without asking.

The database size in the Identify readme did never count these fake entries.
Since V11.1, these fake entries are removed.

@c <
@c >    +- Bugs
@node Bugs, FAQ, Fakes, Top
@appendix Known Bugs
@cindex Bugs

This is a snapshot of my current Amiga:

@example
-- ListExp V12.0 -- Richard Koerber <rkoerber@@gmx.de>
ListExp is a part of the Identify package (see AmiNet util/libs)

** HARDWARE **

System:  Amiga 4000
CPU:     CPU=68060/50 MHz (Rev 1), FPU=68060/50 MHz, MMU=68060
Chips:   AGA (RAMSEY F, GARY Normal, CHUNKY None) VBR=0x0805C560
Agnus:   Alice 8374 Rev. 3-4 (Mode: PAL)
Denise:  Lisa 8364 (Revision: 0)
AmigaOS: 3.5 (V40.68, BoingBag 1, SetPatch V44.6)
         Exec V40.10   Workbench V44.2
Support: GraphicOS: CyberGraphX 4, AudioOS: AHI, TCP/IP: Miami
Clock:   Power 50 Hz, VBlank 50 Hz, E 709379 Hz
RAM:     Motherboard 32 bit, 60 ns, Double CAS, 4x Bandwidth

Memory:            CHIP    FAST   TOTAL ROM = 512.0KB   SLOW = 0
          PLAIN  ~2.0MB  42.0MB ~44.0MB
        VIRTUAL       0       0       0
          TOTAL  ~2.0MB  42.0MB ~44.0MB

** EXPANSIONS **

Nr ID      Address   Size Manufacturer         Product
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
 1 2140.22 40000000  64MB Phase 5              CyberVision 64 Graphics
 2 2140.19 00EA0000 128KB Phase 5              CyberStorm '060 MK-II Flash-ROM
 3 082C.10 00E90000  64KB BSC                  Multiface II Multi I/O
 4 4754.0C 00EC0000  64KB MacroSystem Germany  Toccata Audio
 5 4754.05 00ED0000  64KB MacroSystem Germany  MaestroPro Audio
 6 0877.CA 00EE0000  64KB VillageTronic        Ariadne II Ethernet
@end example

@table @strong
@item THESE BUGS ARE CURRENTLY KNOWN:
@itemize @bullet
@item @samp{Phase 5} and @samp{GVP} have sometimes assigned one ID
to two or more boards. In this case, @code{identify.library}
may return a name that does not fit to the hardware.
@item Currently, an 68030 will always be recognized with MMU.
@end itemize
@end table


@c <
@c >    +- FAQ
@node FAQ, History, Bugs, Top
@appendix Frequently Asked Questions
@cindex Questions
@cindex FAQ

@table @emph
@item Emulation is detected properly, but I do not get information about the host system
Only AmigaXL provides information about the emulation host. Other emulators
like UAE do not provide them.

@item An enforcer hit occurs while analysing the system.
This hit is necessary on some systems to read the last alert code. It is harmless.

@item The CPU/FPU clock isn't accurate.
Measuring the clock requires real Fast RAM for best results, else there
may occur major faults.

@item The PowerPC clock isn't accurate.
This is a bug in the @code{ppc.library}.

@item The PowerPC clock isn't available.
This occurs with some processors using WarpOS.

@item The system crashes at system queries (e.g. ListExp).
Make sure that you have @emph{not} installed the @code{ppc.library}
if you do not really have a PowerPC.

@item Where can I find another FAQ?
On my home page: @code{http://shredzone.home.pages.de}

@end table
@c <
@c >    +- History

@node History, Users, FAQ, Top
@appendix History
@cindex History

@table @strong
@item V 13.0
@itemize @bullet
@item Supports AmigaXL [Markus Pöllmann]
@item Added further boards
@end itemize
@item V 12.3
@itemize @bullet
@item Now recognizes AmigaOS 3.9 [Paul Qureshi]
@item Added further boards
@end itemize
@item V 12.2
@itemize @bullet
@item Now recognizes MiamiDx [Dietmar Lakotta]
@item Added further boards
@end itemize
@item V 12.1
@itemize @bullet
@item Added further boards
@end itemize
@item V 12.0
@itemize @bullet
@item Added BoingBag checking
@item Updated rexxidentify, Installify, ListExp and the German catalog
@end itemize
@item V 11.2
@itemize @bullet
@item Identify was always bumped at version 10. Fixed.
@end itemize
@item V 11.1
@itemize @bullet
@item OS3.5 will be recognized now
@item By chance, I found out that I haven't use PhxAss' branch optimisation
for several @i{years}, though I relied on it being turned on. This optimisation
gained 904 bytes out of V11.0, not to mention the higher speed!
@item Removed all fake boards from the database
@item Slightly improved CPU clock rate meter
@end itemize
@item V 11.0
@itemize @bullet
@item The new function FormatString() generates a formatted string with
hardware elements. See AutoDocs. [Thomas Igracki]
@item Added further boards
@end itemize
@item V 10.2
@itemize @bullet
@item Added further boards
@end itemize
@item V 10.1
@itemize @bullet
@item CyberGraphX 4 and GENESiS supported
@item Added further boards
@end itemize
@item V 10.0
@itemize @bullet
@item Now the last alert is read by blitter if available. This step
was necessary because all those ``bug reports'' were really annoying. ;)
[Idea by Jilles Tjoelker]
@item Denise is identified now [Himanshu Gohel]
@item Updated ListExp
@item Added further boards
@end itemize
@item V 9.3
@itemize @bullet
@item Improved Amiga 4000T recognition [Dave Clarke]
@item Added further boards
@end itemize
@item V 9.2
@itemize @bullet
@item Improved PowerUp/WarpOS recognition [Sebastian Becker]
@item Added further boards
@end itemize
@item V 9.1
@itemize @bullet
@item Minor docs revision
@item IDHW_TCPIP is not cached
@item Added further boards
@item Corrected @file{FILE_ID.DIZ} [Domenic Gebauer]
@end itemize
@item V 9.0
@itemize @bullet
@item Divided into developer and user packet
@item @file{identify.library} 68020 version
@item Added further boards
@item Improved clock measurement
@item IDHW_TCPIP, IDHW_PPCOS, IDHW_AGNUS, IDHW_AGNUSMODE implemented
@item IdFunction() now also seraches @file{include:fd/}
@item Recognizes Amiga 500 with Viper 520 CD correctly [Gerald Schnabel]
@item Recognizes Amiga 4000 Tower [Jan Jampolski]
@item WarpOS supported
@item Wrote InstallIfy
@end itemize
@item V 8.2
@itemize @bullet
@item Added further boards
@item Improved UAE recognition
@item Improved 68060 compatibility
@item Visibly shortened by several optimizations
@end itemize
@item V 8.1
@itemize @bullet
@item Improved SlowRAM recognition
@item Implemented IdHardwareUpdate()
@item Implemented motherboard RAM tests (RAMACCESS, RAMWIDTH, RAMCAS, RAMBANDWIDTH)
@item Removed stupid IDHW_VBR and IDHW_LASTALERT caching
@item ListExp actualized
@end itemize
@item V 8.0
@itemize @bullet
@item Bugfix: IdFunction produced mungwall hits on oversized lines
@item Bugfix: VMM messed up the memory results
@item IdExpansion speed improvement
@item IDTAG_ClassID returns numerical board's class code [Jens Langner]
@item IDTAG_Localize returns builtin language only, if TRUE
@item IDTAG_NULL4NA returns NULL ptr instead of "N/A" string
@item IDHW_CPUREV returns the revision of the main CPU
@item IDHW_CPUCLOCK, IDHW_FPUCLOCK returns the clock frequencies
@item Reorganized the catalog files
@item UAE recognition implemented
@item Updated ListExp and rexxidentify.library
@item Added .ct files for translation
@end itemize
@item V 7.3
@itemize @bullet
@item Bugfix: GfxOS detection was broken under certain situations
@item Added Commodities to rexxidentify.library [Domenic Gebauer]
@item Minor DraCo bugfixes [Udo Reuchlein]
@item Picasso96 (hopefully) is properly recognized now [Jens Langner]
@item Added further boards.
@end itemize
@item V 7.2
@itemize @bullet
@item Bugfix: LowMemory handler now works fine
@item Some minor optimizations
@item Added IDTAG_Secondary
@item Added SECONDARY to rexxidentify.library
@item Increased IdFunction() parser maximum line length, due to some lines
in the cybergraphics_lib.fd.
@end itemize
@item V 7.1
@itemize @bullet
@item Bugfix: rexxidentify.library returned additional Null termination [Bossman]
@item Bugfix: LowMemory handler hangs up and is temporary disabled
@item Added further boards.
@end itemize
@item V 7.0
@itemize @bullet
@item Chunky to planar hardware recognized
@item PowerPC recognition implemented, but not yet completed
@item Added an LowMemory handler (AmigaOS V39+ only)
@item Memory sizes are shown like in @code{ShowConfig}
@end itemize
@item V 6.1
@itemize @bullet
@item Added further boards.
@item Enforcer hit now only occurs on LASTALERT query.
@item Added ARexx command EXPNAME
@end itemize
@item V 6.0
@itemize @bullet
@item Added further boards.
@item OS2.1 recognized properly.
@item Some new hardware requests (VBR, Gary, RAMSEY, Slow-RAM,
Frequencies, BattClock)
@item You can list all expansions without the need to open
expansion.library now
@item IdHardwareNum() implemented: you can also request a numerical result
for own evaluating purposes now
@item localized and actualized ListExp, Function and Guru
@item ARexx access to the library via rexxidentify.library
@item More example programs
@end itemize
@item V 5.2
@itemize @bullet
@item Added further boards.
@item Wrote a small C example: using identify with MUI
@end itemize
@item V 5.1
@itemize @bullet
@item Bugfix: did not recognize AHI properly
@item Added further boards.
@item Properly recognizes A500 with A570 expansion.
@item AmigaE include files [Roger Hågensen]
@end itemize
@item V 5.0
@itemize @bullet
@item Better Picasso96 recognition
@item Should now FINALLY recognize OCS/ECS Amiga with OS3.1
@item Added further boards.
@item Now also checks Audio OS and AmigaOS.
@item Added plain and VMM memory checkings.
@item Supports shared Manufacturer IDs now.
@item Bugfix: Enforcer hit when asking directly for an unknown expansion
@item Gained several KB by optimizing tables, database compression and clean-ups
@item Adapted ListExp
@end itemize
@item V 4.4
@itemize @bullet
@item Recognizes Picasso96
@item Added further boards.
@item Bugfix: "-?-" printed beside guessed expansion name
@item Bugfix: Some Amiga 1200 were recognized as "Walker" :-)
@end itemize
@item V 4.3
@itemize @bullet
@item Recognizes CyberGraphX V3
@item Added further boards.
@end itemize
@item V 4.2
@itemize @bullet
@item CyberGraphX wasn't recognized properly.
@item Added further boards.
@end itemize
@item V 4.1
@itemize @bullet
@item Bug fix: still some problems with Amiga recognition.
@item Picasso will be recognized.
@item Added further boards.
@end itemize
@item V 4.0
@itemize @bullet
@item IdFunction() implemented.
@item New tool Function.
@item Added further boards.
@item Bugfix: In some cases the manufacturer name was trashed.
@item Pascal include files (made by Axel Dörfler)
@item Identifies SetPatch version
@end itemize
@item V 3.1
@itemize @bullet
@item 2 boards added
@item Bugfix: always recognized an Amiga 3000 on ECS machines with OS3.1.
@item Bugfix: recognized CyberGraphX even when PictDT was installed only.
@item Improved memory rounding
@end itemize
@item V 3.0
@itemize @bullet
@item Bases on the @code{expname.library}, but completely rewritten.
@item Now convert alert codes, too.
@item Wrote GURU.
@end itemize
@end table



@c <
@c >    +- Users
@node Users, Credits, History, Top
@appendix Users
@cindex Users

These programs are already using the @code{identify.library}:

@table @strong
@item batsi
Author: Chris Young@*
AmiNet: @code{util/moni/batsi.lha}@*
E-Mail: @code{unsatisfactory@@bigfoot.com}

@item cP!_ShowConfig
Author: Domenic Gebauer@*
AmiNet: @code{util/wb/cP_ShowConfig.lha}@*
E-Mail: @code{campino@@gmx.net}

@item Custom_CTCP - Extension CTCP commands for AmIRC
Author: Don Clifton (Bossman^)@*
AmiNet: @code{comm/irc/CCTCPv??.lha}@*
E-Mail: @code{bosman@@erols.com}

@item eTeacher
Author: W.F.M.H. and Krzysiek Jonko@*
AmiNet: @code{biz/demo/eTeacher.lha}@*
E-Mail: @code{info@@amiga.com.pl}

@item EuraTools Register
Author: Richard Körber@*
AmiNet: @code{util/misc/EuraTools.lha}@*
E-Mail: @code{shred@@eratosthenes.starfleet.de}

@item IdentifyBB2
Author: Ferraris Luca@*
AmiNet: @code{dev/basic/IdentifyBB2.lha}@*
E-Mail: @code{ferraris.luca@@educ.di.unito.it}

@item P96Speed
Author: Jens Langner@*
AmiNet: @code{gfx/board/P96Speed.lha}@*
E-Mail: @code{deck@@rcs.urz.tu-dresden.de}

@item Scout
Author: Andreas Gelhausen, Richard Körber@*
AmiNet: @code{util/moni/Scout.lha}@*
E-Mail: @code{shred@@eratosthenes.starfleet.de}

@item ShowSystem
Author: Jarmo Laakkonen@*
AmiNet: @code{util/moni/showsystem.lha}@*
E-Mail: @code{jami@@dlc.fi}

@item SL!-BoxStatus
Author: Sascha Sauer@*
AmiNet: @code{comm/bbs/SL-BS??.lha}@*
E-Mail: @code{SPACEMAN@@SPACELND.ruhr.de}

@item SIP
Author: Andreas R. Kleinert@*
AmiNet: @code{util/moni/SIP.lha}@*
E-Mail: @code{Andreas_Kleinert@@t-online.de}

@item SystemPrefs
Author: Richard Körber@*
AmiNet: @code{util/wb/SytemPrefs.lha}@*
E-Mail: @code{shred@@eratosthenes.starfleet.de}

@item ToxicBoards
Author: Sascha Reissner@*
AmiNet: @code{comm/cnet/TBoards???.lha}@*
E-Mail: @code{sascha@@toxic.franken.de}

@item What Config
Author: Christian Vigård@*
AmiNet: @code{util/misc/WCv??.lha}@*
E-Mail: @code{vigard@@hem2.passagen.se}

@item XOpa
Author: Axel Dörfler, Alexander Bartz@*
AmiNet: @code{util/moni/XOpa1_??.lha}@*
E-Mail: @code{axeld@@ax.westfalen.de}

@end table

Your program is missing? Write me!

@c <
@c >    +- Credits

@node Credits, Concept Index, Users, Top
@appendix Credits
@cindex Credits

I want to thank especially these fellows (in no special order):

@table @strong
@item Andreas Gelhausen
for Scout, his board list and his ideas.

@item Martin Wietfeld
for his great board list!

@item Markus Pöllmann
for providing me information about AmigaXL

@item Axel Dörfler
for using Identify in XOpa, and the PASCAL includes.

@item Frank Wille
for his great @code{PhxAss} assembler, his hints and all his help,
especially for the WarpOS PPC clock source.

@item Thomas Kessler
for his many ideas.

@item Dietmar Lakotta
for showing me how to detect MiamiDx.

@item Geert Uytterhoeven
for his board list and the description of the GVP codes.

@item Roger Hågensen
for the Amiga-E include files and his hints.

@item Dámaso D. Estévez
for the HiSoft/Maxon-BASIC includes files

@item Atéo Concepts (M. Lagier)
for being the first manufacturer who actually replied to my mail
regarding their manufacturer and product IDs.

@item Andreas Schlick, Kai Schindelka and Thomas Schürger
for their untiring help.

@item Timo Ronkko
for his genious hint!

@item Colin Thompson
for his field tests, checking my translations and his useful hints.

@item Kössi
for his many boards, his help for all my TexInfo problems, and
his debug skills.

@end table

@dots{}and for their contributions (sorted alphabetically):

@include Namen.texi

(and all I might have forgotten!)

Keep on!

@ifinfo
@example
            //
        \\\\ //   -- Amiga - The Computer for Creative Mind --
         \\X/
@end example
@end ifinfo
@iftex
@example
            //
        \\ //   -- Amiga - The Computer for Creative Mind --
         \X/
@end example
@end iftex



@c <
@c >    +- Concept Index

@node Concept Index,  , Credits, Top
@unnumbered Concept Index
@printindex cp

@contents

@c <

@bye
